 Java Applications:
 
 4 types
   1. Standalone Application
   it is also known as desktop applications.
   it is a software we need to install in Sysytem.
    examples:
	
	vlc player,antivires ..ect
	
	
	
   
   
   
   2.Web Application
   
     an application that runs on server side and cresate dydnamic pages is called web appplication
   example:
   
    servlets,
	spring,
	hibernate ect
   
   
   3 Enterprise Application
    it is an application that is distributed in nature  are called as enterprise PPLICATION.
     EXAMPLES:
	 
	 facebook,gmail,baNKING APPLICATIONS ect .
	 
	 
   4.Mobile Application
     It is an application which is created for mobile devices.
	  example:
	  Android appplication
	  
	  
	  
	  JAVA Platforms/Editions
	  
	  4 Platforms/Editions
	  
	  1.JAVA SE
	  2. JAVA EE
	  3. JAVA ME
	  4. JAVAFX
   
   
   
   Object Oriented Programing 
   
   
   advanteges:
     1.it is easier for maintance
	 2.it is secure because it provides data hiding methodologies.
	 
	 Simula ----first Object oriented programming language
	 but partially
	 
	 a programming language where every thing is represented as objct,
	 is known as truly object oriented programming language.
	 example: java
	 
	 
	 the main aim of using Oop's is to implememt real world entity.
	 
	 1.Object and Class
	 2.Abstarction
	 3.Inheritance
	 4.Polymorphism
	 5 .Encapsulation
	 
	 
	 
	 Couplig,cohesion,association,Aggregation,composition
	 
	 
	 object:
	 
	 An entity that has state and behavior is know as an object.
	 
	 example:
	  chair---state- colour,shape; behavior  sitting
	  
	  
	  An object is used to define an insatnce of class.
	  it contains address and it takes some space in mempory.
	  
	  
	  Class:
	  
	  Collection of objects or group of objects is called as class.
	  
	  
	  Abstarction:
	  
	  
	 Hididng internal details and showing functionlity is known abstraction.
	 
	 
	 example--  Database,ATM Macbhine,PHONE call  ect..
	 
	  In java we are using abstarct class and interface to achieve abstration.
	  
	  if a class is declered as abstract then it is known as abstract class.
	  
	rules or   properties of Abstraction:
	
	    1. An abstarct class must be declared with an abstract keyword.
		2 it can have both abstract and non-abstract methods.
		
		if it contains abstract method method means the call must be abstract
		3. it cannot be instantiated.
		4.it can have final methods
		5.it can have consteructors and static methods.
		  
		  
		  Abstarct Method:
		  
		  if we declared a method as abstract then we call it as abstract method.
		  
		  abstract void printStatus();
		  
		  
		
		Interface :
		
		
		it is a mechanism to achieve abstraction in java
		
		
		
		Polymorphism:
		
		
		it is used to perform single action in diffent wayts.
		
		poly + Morphs
		many + forms
		
		two types:
		1.Compile time Polymorphism -- over loading
		2.runtime polymorphism ---over riding
		
		
		
		
		Method Overloading in java
		
		In a class we have differnt methods having same name  with different in parameters.
		
		it is called as Method overloading
		
		Method Overriding in java
		
		if a sub class or child class provides the specific implementation of the method that has been
		declared by one of its parent class or super class ,it known as method over riding.
		
		
		1.method name must have the same name as parent class
		2. method must have same parameters as in parent class3
		3.it must provide IS-A relationship(inheritance)
		
		
		
		Difference b/w method overload and method overriding:
		
		
		
		Method Overloading
		1.it is used to increase the readability of the program.
		2.It id performed within same class.
		3.parameters must be different
		4.example for compile time polymorphism
		over
		Method Overriding
		1.it is used to provide specific implementation othe method
		2.it is performed in two classes.
		3.must and should have same parameters
		4.example for run time polymorphism
		
		
		Encapsulation :
		
		It is the process of Combining code and data together in to a sing unit.
		
		Here we are using getter and setter methods.
		
		
		for obtaining fully encapsulated class we have to make all data members has private.
		
		
		Inheritance or IS-A relationship:
		 it is a mechanism in java where one object acquires all the properties
		 and behavior of a parent object.
		 
		 
		 1. Code reusability
		 2.for method over riding(runtime polymorphism)
		 
		 
		 
		 syntax:
		 
		 class childclass extends parentclass{
		 
		 //methods or data members
		 
		 }
		 
		 Types of Inheritance:
		 
		 1.Single Inheritance
		 
		 one childclass extends parent class.
		  
		  
		  
		 
		 2. multilevel Inheritance
		 
		 it has chain of inheritance.
		 
		 class A ,class B, class C
		 
		 
		 class A---
		 
		 class B extends class A
		 
		 Class C extend class B
		 
		 3.Hierarchical Inheritance
		  
		 
		 
		 when two or more classes inherits a single class.
		 
		 4.multiple Inheritance(Not Supported in java)
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 5.Hybrid Inheritance( Combibnation multilevel and multiple)
		 
		 
		   Interface:
		   
		   it is a blueprint of class.it has static and abstract methods.
		
		 syntax:
		  interface interfacename{
		  
		 // static method and abstract methods
		  
		 // public,dafault and final data members.
		  
		  }
		  
		  Interface A{
		  
		  int B=10;
		  void run();
		  
		  }
		  
		  it goes to complier to JVM
		   
		   
		   Interface A{
		   
		   public static final int B=10;
		   public abstract void run();
		   
		   }
		
		
		
	  
	  
	  
	 
	 